# Essence - Team

When we started the assignment much of the *seeded* state was already completed. The team mission was laid out in the instructions and transferred over to GitHub in the form of issues and requirements. Leadership and teamworking methods were carried over from the last assignment where we talked through structure and timeline in meetings finding a timeline that worked for everyone; and points of the checklist such as size and commitment were rather obvious. The *formed* state was also relatively quick by different team members assigning themselves to the issues and discussing how we wanted to work through the project using the communication methods already set up from the prior assignment having most of our lunch meetings over Discord call while also using the chat function to communicate throughout the day. Once each person assigned to an issue would finish a task they would then assign another team member to review and communication would shift to Github so we could keep a clear history of discussion. With the help of the clear communication and layout laid earlier, we continued through the *collaborating* state, continuing to work on the issues laid out in the states prior, keeping clear communication, and are now in the *performing* state. We are working on meeting all of the commitments and addressing any last minute issues which may occur. We are making sure to work effectively and avoid backtracking by being aware of other people’s progress and keeping clear lines of communication. This state will continue until the presentation, at which point we will find out if there are additional aspects that need to be worked on. If so those will be managed as the initial issues were in the formed state by being assigned an issue and a person to complete it. After all the work is finished we will have reached the final *adjourned* state where there is no further work that must be done.
